- [Instructor] So, let us see what we're going to do
in the else part.
Here, we are going to first throw an Exception.
The Exception will state that, of course, the credentials
that we got were not valid, anymore.
But this, we will do by designing
our own custom Exception class.
So I'll go under the Exception Package
and create a new class.
And let's call that, maybe, LoginFailureException.
And let this extend Exception class
and of course, you can have the business as usual,
you can create a constructor,
Say LoginFailureException.
And on this have message, which you can then use
in the super constructor call.
So we have an Exception class ready,
and now we'll just come here and say
throw new LoginFailureException.
That will have a message saying
Invalid username or password.
So once we do this, of course,
we'll have to make sure that it is defined
in the method signature.
So I'm going to quickly add that throws clause on line 21
on the method signature.
So this is the simplest logic
that I could build in order to show you this demo.
Of course, in your production grade application,
you will have many layers
of checks that you may want to do
but this is just to exhibit ResponseEntity
and exception handling for your REST services.
So once we do that,
let's do one more thing.
You're going to use now the @ExceptionHandler annotation
to manage the exception handling for our RESTful service.
Now, we have already used this when we did the demos
for the MVC controllers.
So let's go to the IDE
and under the ApplicationException handler,
which we had already created for our MVC demos,
I'm just going to add one more method there.
And that method is of course going
to have this ExceptionHandler annotation
but this time, it will have another exception type
of be handled which is LoginFailureException.class.
And in that,
we're going to say public.
Let this also return a ResponseEntity
and say handleLoginFailure maybe.
This time, let's also get that LoginFailureException object
as a method parameter.
We can totally do that
when we have our ExceptionHandler methods written like that.
And this time, we are going
to say return ResponseEntity.status
and this time, it will be a forbidden status, right?
So when you have incorrect credentials all together,
which means you're not authorized to enter the system
and in that case,
they should be status code that you're trying to insert back
to the response of the body will be forbidden.
To this, you can also chain another method,
body which will just take the exception object
and get the message that came out of it.
That's all.
So what you're doing is if there's an exception thrown
of this type, then this method
is going to get called
and ResponseEntity with a forbidden status
is going to go back to the body of the response.
Okay.
So let's come back to the REST controller.
So we have all our cases ready here
and we use the exception handling.
So everything looks good.
Now let's build this and then test it out.